9.9.2015            EN                         Official Journal of the European Union                                          L 235/7


                                  COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) 2015/1502
                                                       of 8 September 2015
            on setting out minimum technical specifications and procedures for assurance levels for electronic
            identification means pursuant to Article 8(3) of Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European
            Parliament and of the Council on electronic identification and trust services for electronic
                                           transactions in the internal market

                                                      (Text with EEA relevance)


     THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION,



     Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,


     Having regard to Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on
     electronic identification and trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive
     1999/93/EC (1), and in particular Article 8(3) thereof,


     Whereas:


     (1)     Article 8 of Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 provides that an electronic identification scheme notified pursuant to
             Article 9(1) needs to specify assurance levels low, substantial and high for electronic identification means issued
             under that scheme.


     (2)     Determining the minimum technical specifications, standards and procedures is essential in order to ensure
             common understanding of the details of the assurance levels and to ensure interoperability when mapping the
             national assurance levels of notified electronic identification schemes against the assurance levels under Article 8
             as provided by Article 12(4)(b) of Regulation (EU) No 910/2014.


     (3)     International standard ISO/IEC 29115 has been taken into account for the specifications and procedures set out
             in this implementing act as being the principle international standard available in the domain of assurance levels
             for electronic identification means. However, the content of Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 differs from that inter­
             national standard, in particular in relation to identity proofing and verification requirements, as well as to the
             way in which the differences between Member State identity arrangements and the existing tools in the EU for
             the same purpose are taken into account. Therefore the Annex, while building on this international standard
             should not make reference to any specific content of ISO/IEC 29115.


     (4)     This Regulation has been developed as an outcome based approach as being the most appropriate which is also
             reflected in the definitions used to specify the terms and concepts. They take into account the aim of Regulation
             (EU) No 910/2014 in relation to assurance levels of the electronic identification means. Therefore, the Large-Scale
             Pilot STORK, including specifications developed by it, and the definitions and concepts in ISO/IEC 29115 should
             be taken into the utmost account when establishing the specifications and procedures set out in this
             implementing act.


     (5)     Depending on the context in which an aspect of evidence of identity needs to be verified, authoritative sources
             can take many forms, such as registries, documents, bodies inter alia. Authoritative sources may be different in
             the various Member States even in a similar context.


     (6)     Requirements for identity proofing and verification should take into account different systems and practices,
             while ensuring sufficiently high assurance in order to establish the necessary trust. Therefore, acceptance of
             procedures used previously for a purpose other than the issuance of electronic identification means should be
             made conditional upon confirmation that those procedures fulfil the requirements foreseen for the corresponding
             assurance level.

     (1) OJ L 257, 28.8.2014, p. 73.
L 235/8            EN                          Official Journal of the European Union                                         9.9.2015

     (7)    Certain authentication factors such as shared secrets, physical devices and physical attributes are usually
            employed. However, the usage of a greater number of authentication factors, especially from different factor
            categories, should be encouraged to increase the security of the authentication process.


     (8)    This Regulation should not affect representation rights of legal persons. However, the Annex should provide for
            requirements for the binding between the electronic identification means of natural and legal persons.


     (9)    The importance of information security and service management systems should be recognised, as should be the
            importance of employing recognised methodologies and applying the principles embedded in standards such as
            the ISO/IEC 27000 and the ISO/IEC 20000 series.


     (10)   Good practices in relation to assurance levels in the Member States should also be taken into account.


     (11)   IT security certification based on international standards is an important tool for verifying the security
            compliance of products with the requirements of this implementing act.


     (12)   The Committee referred to in Article 48 of Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 has not delivered an opinion within
            the time limit laid down by its chair,



     HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION:



                                                              Article 1


     1.    Assurance levels low, substantial and high for electronic identification means issued under a notified electronic
     identification scheme shall be determined with reference to the specifications and procedures set out in the Annex.


     2.    The specifications and procedures set out in the Annex shall be used to specify the assurance level of the electronic
     identification means issued under a notified electronic identification scheme by determining the reliability and quality of
     following elements:

     (a) enrolment, as set out in section 2.1 of the Annex to this Regulation pursuant to Article 8(3)(a) of Regulation (EU)
         No 910/2014;

     (b) electronic identification means management, as set out in section 2.2 of the Annex to this Regulation pursuant to
         Article 8(3)(b) and (f) of Regulation (EU) No 910/2014;

     (c) authentication, as set out in section 2.3 of the Annex to this Regulation pursuant to Article 8(3)(c) of Regulation
         (EU) No 910/2014;

     (d) management and organisation, as set out in section 2.4 of the Annex to this Regulation pursuant to Article 8(3)(d)
         and (e) of Regulation (EU) No 910/2014.

     3.    When the electronic identification means issued under a notified electronic identification scheme meets a
     requirement listed in a higher assurance level then it shall be presumed to fulfil the equivalent requirement of a lower
     assurance level.


     4.    Unless otherwise stated in the relevant part of the Annex, all elements listed in the Annex for a particular
     assurance level of the electronic identification means issued under a notified electronic identification scheme shall be
     met in order to match the claimed assurance level.



                                                              Article 2


     This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the
     European Union.
9.9.2015   EN                          Official Journal of the European Union                               L 235/9

           This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.


           Done at Brussels, 8 September 2015.

                                                                            For the Commission
                                                                               The President
                                                                           Jean-Claude JUNCKER
L 235/10                EN                                    Official Journal of the European Union                                 9.9.2015


                                                                             ANNEX

              Technical specifications and procedures for assurance levels low, substantial and high for electronic
                         identification means issued under a notified electronic identification scheme


     1.       Applicable definitions


              For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply:

              (1) ‘authoritative source’ means any source irrespective of its form that can be relied upon to provide accurate
                  data, information and/or evidence that can be used to prove identity;

              (2) ‘authentication factor’ means a factor confirmed as being bound to a person, which falls into any of the
                  following categories:

                    (a) ‘possession-based authentication factor’ means an authentication factor where the subject is required to
                        demonstrate possession of it;

                    (b) ‘knowledge-based authentication factor’ means an authentication factor where the subject is required to
                        demonstrate knowledge of it;

                    (c) ‘inherent authentication factor’ means an authentication factor that is based on a physical attribute of a
                        natural person, and of which the subject is required to demonstrate that they have that physical attribute;

              (3) ‘dynamic authentication’ means an electronic process using cryptography or other techniques to provide a
                  means of creating on demand an electronic proof that the subject is in control or in possession of the identi­
                  fication data and which changes with each authentication between the subject and the system verifying the
                  subject's identity;

              (4) ‘information security management system’ means a set of processes and procedures designed to manage to
                  acceptable levels risks related to information security.



     2.       Technical specifications and procedures


              The elements of technical specifications and procedures outlined in this Annex shall be used to determine how
              the requirements and criteria of Article 8 of Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 shall be applied for electronic identifi­
              cation means issued under an electronic identification scheme.




     2.1.     Enrolment


     2.1.1. A p p l i c a t i o n a n d r e g i s t r a t i o n


                   Assurance level                                                     Elements needed

              Low                           1. Ensure the applicant is aware of the terms and conditions related to the use of the elec­
                                               tronic identification means.
                                            2. Ensure the applicant is aware of recommended security precautions related to the electro­
                                               nic identification means.
                                            3. Collect the relevant identity data required for identity proofing and verification.


              Substantial                   Same as level low.


              High                          Same as level low.
9.9.2015                EN                                     Official Journal of the European Union                                     L 235/11

     2.1.2. I d e n t i t y p r o o f i n g a n d v e r i f i c a t i o n ( n a t u r a l p e r s o n )



                   Assurance level                                                                  Elements needed

              Low                            1. The person can be assumed to be in possession of evidence recognised by the Member
                                                State in which the application for the electronic identity means is being made and repre­
                                                senting the claimed identity.
                                             2. The evidence can be assumed to be genuine, or to exist according to an authoritative
                                                source and the evidence appears to be valid.
                                             3. It is known by an authoritative source that the claimed identity exists and it may be
                                                assumed that the person claiming the identity is one and the same.




              Substantial                    Level low, plus one of the alternatives listed in points 1 to 4 has to be met:
                                             1. The person has been verified to be in possession of evidence recognised by the Member
                                                State in which the application for the electronic identity means is being made and repre­
                                                senting the claimed identity
                                                  and
                                                  the evidence is checked to determine that it is genuine; or, according to an authoritative
                                                  source, it is known to exist and relates to a real person
                                                  and
                                                  steps have been taken to minimise the risk that the person's identity is not the claimed
                                                  identity, taking into account for instance the risk of lost, stolen, suspended, revoked or
                                                  expired evidence;
                                                  or
                                             2. An identity document is presented during a registration process in the Member State
                                                where the document was issued and the document appears to relate to the person pre­
                                                senting it
                                                  and
                                                  steps have been taken to minimise the risk that the person's identity is not the claimed
                                                  identity, taking into account for instance the risk of lost, stolen, suspended, revoked or
                                                  expired documents;
                                                  or
                                             3. Where procedures used previously by a public or private entity in the same Member
                                                State for a purpose other than the issuance of electronic identification means provide
                                                for an equivalent assurance to those set out in section 2.1.2 for the assurance level
                                                substantial, then the entity responsible for registration need not to repeat those earlier
                                                procedures, provided that such equivalent assurance is confirmed by a conformity assess­
                                                ment body referred to in Article 2(13) of Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European
                                                Parliament and of the Council (1) or by an equivalent body;
                                                  or
                                             4. Where electronic identification means are issued on the basis of a valid notified electronic
                                                identification means having the assurance level substantial or high, and taking into
                                                account the risks of a change in the person identification data, it is not required to repeat
                                                the identity proofing and verification processes. Where the electronic identification
                                                means serving as the basis has not been notified, the assurance level substantial or high
                                                must be confirmed by a conformity assessment body referred to in Article 2(13) of
                                                Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 or by an equivalent body.
L 235/12                EN                                     Official Journal of the European Union                                        9.9.2015


                   Assurance level                                                                   Elements needed

              High                           Requirements of either point 1 or 2 have to be met:
                                             1. Level substantial, plus one of the alternatives listed in points (a) to (c) has to be met:
                                                 (a) Where the person has been verified to be in possession of photo or biometric identi­
                                                     fication evidence recognised by the Member State in which the application for the
                                                     electronic identity means is being made and that evidence represents the claimed
                                                     identity, the evidence is checked to determine that it is valid according to an authori­
                                                     tative source;
                                                       and
                                                       the applicant is identified as the claimed identity through comparison of one or more
                                                       physical characteristic of the person with an authoritative source;
                                                       or
                                                 (b) Where procedures used previously by a public or private entity in the same Member
                                                     State for a purpose other than the issuance of electronic identification means provide
                                                     for an equivalent assurance to those set out in section 2.1.2 for the assurance level
                                                     high, then the entity responsible for registration need not to repeat those earlier pro­
                                                     cedures, provided that such equivalent assurance is confirmed by a conformity assess­
                                                     ment body referred to in Article 2(13) of Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 or by an
                                                     equivalent body
                                                       and
                                                       steps are taken to demonstrate that the results of the earlier procedures remain valid;
                                                       or
                                                 (c) Where electronic identification means are issued on the basis of a valid notified elec­
                                                     tronic identification means having the assurance level high, and taking into account
                                                     the risks of a change in the person identification data, it is not required to repeat the
                                                     identity proofing and verification processes. Where the electronic identification
                                                     means serving as the basis has not been notified, the assurance level high must be
                                                     confirmed by a conformity assessment body referred to in Article 2(13) of Regulation
                                                     (EC) No 765/2008 or by an equivalent body
                                                       and
                                                       steps are taken to demonstrate that the results of this previous issuance procedure of
                                                       a notified electronic identification means remain valid.
                                                 OR
                                             2. Where the applicant does not present any recognised photo or biometric identification
                                                evidence, the very same procedures used at the national level in the Member State of the
                                                entity responsible for registration to obtain such recognised photo or biometric identifi­
                                                cation evidence are applied.


              (1) Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 July 2008 setting out the requirements
                  for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 339/93
                  (OJ L 218, 13.8.2008, p. 30).




     2.1.3. I d e n t i t y p r o o f i n g a n d v e r i f i c a t i o n ( l e g al p e r s o n )



                   Assurance level                                                                   Elements Needed

              Low                            1. The claimed identity of the legal person is demonstrated on the basis of evidence recog­
                                                nised by the Member State in which the application for the electronic identity means is
                                                being made.
9.9.2015          EN                         Official Journal of the European Union                                         L 235/13


              Assurance level                                           Elements Needed

                                2. The evidence appears to be valid and can be assumed to be genuine, or to exist according
                                   to an authoritative source, where the inclusion of a legal person in the authoritative
                                   source is voluntary and is regulated by an arrangement between the legal person and the
                                   authoritative source.
                                3. The legal person is not known by an authoritative source to be in a status that would
                                   prevent it from acting as that legal person.




           Substantial          Level low, plus one of the alternatives listed in points 1 to 3 has to be met:
                                1. The claimed identity of the legal person is demonstrated on the basis of evidence recog­
                                   nised by the Member State in which the application for the electronic identity means is
                                   being made, including the legal person's name, legal form, and (if applicable) its registra­
                                   tion number
                                   and
                                   the evidence is checked to determine whether it is genuine, or known to exist according
                                   to an authoritative source, where the inclusion of the legal person in the authoritative
                                   source is required for the legal person to operate within its sector
                                   and
                                   steps have been taken to minimise the risk that the legal person's identity is not the
                                   claimed identity, taking into account for instance the risk of lost, stolen, suspended,
                                   revoked or expired documents;
                                   or
                                2. Where the procedures used previously by a public or private entity in the same Member
                                   State for a purpose other than issuance of electronic identification means provide for an
                                   equivalent assurance to those set out in section 2.1.3 for the assurance level substantial,
                                   then the entity responsible for registration need not to repeat those earlier procedures,
                                   provided that such equivalent assurance is confirmed by a conformity assessment body
                                   referred to in Article 2(13) of Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 or by an equivalent body;
                                   or
                                3. Where electronic identification means are issued on the basis of a valid notified electronic
                                   identification means having the assurance level substantial or high, it is not required
                                   to repeat the identity proofing and verification processes. Where the electronic identifica­
                                   tion means serving as the basis has not been notified, the assurance level substantial or
                                   high must be confirmed by a conformity assessment body referred to in Article 2(13) of
                                   Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 or by an equivalent body.




           High                 Level substantial, plus one of the alternatives listed in points 1 to 3 has to be met:
                                1. The claimed identity of the legal person is demonstrated on the basis of evidence recog­
                                   nised by the Member State in which the application for the electronic identity means is
                                   being made, including the legal person's name, legal form, and at least one unique identi­
                                   fier representing the legal person used in a national context
                                   and
                                   the evidence is checked to determine that it is valid according to an authoritative source;
                                   or
L 235/14                EN                                   Official Journal of the European Union                                                       9.9.2015


                   Assurance level                                                               Elements Needed

                                            2. Where the procedures used previously by a public or private entity in the same Member
                                               State for a purpose other than issuance of electronic identification means provide for an
                                               equivalent assurance to those set out in section 2.1.3 for the assurance level high, then
                                               the entity responsible for registration need not to repeat those earlier procedures, pro­
                                               vided that such equivalent assurance is confirmed by a conformity assessment body
                                               referred to in Article 2(13) of Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 or by an equivalent body
                                                and
                                                steps are taken to demonstrate that the results of this previous procedure remain valid;
                                                or
                                            3. Where electronic identification means are issued on the basis of a valid notified electronic
                                               identification means having the assurance level high, it is not required to repeat the iden­
                                               tity proofing and verification processes. Where the electronic identification means serving
                                               as the basis has not been notified, the assurance level high must be confirmed by a con­
                                               formity assessment body referred to in Article 2(13) of Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 or
                                               by an equivalent body
                                                and
                                                steps are taken to demonstrate that the results of this previous issuance procedure of a
                                                notified electronic identification means remain valid.




     2.1.4. B i n d i n g b e t w e e n t h e e l e c t r o n i c i d e n t i f i c a t i o n m e a n s o f n a t u r a l a n d l e g a l p e r s o n s



              Where applicable, for binding between the electronic identification means of a natural person and the electronic
              identification means of a legal person (‘binding’) the following conditions apply:


              (1) It shall be possible to suspend and/or revoke a binding. The life-cycle of a binding (e.g. activation, suspension,
                  renewal, revocation) shall be administered according to nationally recognised procedures.


              (2) The natural person whose electronic identification means is bound to the electronic identification means of
                  the legal person may delegate the exercise of the binding to another natural person on the basis of nationally
                  recognised procedures. However, the delegating natural person shall remain accountable.


              (3) Binding shall be done in the following manner:


                        Assurance level                                                             Elements Needed

                    Low                          1. The identity proofing of the natural person acting on behalf of the legal person is
                                                    verified as having been performed at level low or above.
                                                 2. The binding has been established on the basis of nationally recognised procedures.
                                                 3. The natural person is not known by an authoritative source to be in a status that
                                                    would prevent that person from acting on behalf of the legal person.



                    Substantial                  Point 3 of level low, plus:
                                                 1. The identity proofing of the natural person acting on behalf of the legal person is
                                                    verified as having been performed at level substantial or high.
9.9.2015                EN                                     Official Journal of the European Union                                     L 235/15


                         Assurance level                                                              Elements Needed

                                                  2. The binding has been established on the basis of nationally recognised procedures,
                                                     which resulted in the registration of the binding in an authoritative source.
                                                  3. The binding has been verified on the basis of information from an authoritative
                                                     source.


                    High                          Point 3 of level low and point 2 of level substantial, plus:
                                                  1. The identity proofing of the natural person acting on behalf of the legal person is
                                                     verified as having been performed at level high.
                                                  2. The binding has been verified on the basis of a unique identifier representing the
                                                     legal person used in the national context; and on the basis of information uniquely
                                                     representing the natural person from an authoritative source.




     2.2.     Electronic identification means management

     2.2.1. E l e c t r o n i c i d e n t i f i c a t i o n m e a n s c ha r a c te r i s t i c s a n d d e s i g n


                   Assurance level                                                                 Elements needed

              Low                            1. The electronic identification means utilises at least one authentication factor.
                                             2. The electronic identification means is designed so that the issuer takes reasonable steps
                                                to check that it is used only under the control or possession of the person to whom it
                                                belongs.


              Substantial                    1. The electronic identification means utilises at least two authentication factors from differ­
                                                ent categories.
                                             2. The electronic identification means is designed so that it can be assumed to be used only
                                                if under the control or possession of the person to whom it belongs.


              High                           Level substantial, plus:
                                             1. The electronic identification means protects against duplication and tampering as well as
                                                against attackers with high attack potential
                                             2. The electronic identification means is designed so that it can be reliably protected by the
                                                person to whom it belongs against use by others.




     2.2.2. I s s u a n c e , d e l i v e r y a n d a c t i v a t i o n


                   Assurance level                                                                 Elements needed

              Low                            After issuance, the electronic identification means is delivered via a mechanism by which it
                                             can be assumed to reach only the intended person.


              Substantial                    After issuance, the electronic identification means is delivered via a mechanism by which it
                                             can be assumed that it is delivered only into the possession of the person to whom it
                                             belongs.


              High                           The activation process verifies that the electronic identification means was delivered only
                                             into the possession of the person to whom it belongs.
L 235/16                EN                                   Official Journal of the European Union                                       9.9.2015

     2.2.3. S u s p e n s i o n , r e v oc a t i o n a n d r e a c t i v a t i o n


                   Assurance level                                                    Elements needed

              Low                           1. It is possible to suspend and/or revoke an electronic identification means in a timely and
                                               effective manner.
                                            2. The existence of measures taken to prevent unauthorised suspension, revocation and/or
                                               reactivation.
                                            3. Reactivation shall take place only if the same assurance requirements as established
                                               before the suspension or revocation continue to be met.

              Substantial                   Same as level low.

              High                          Same as level low.



     2.2.4. R e n e w a l a n d r e p l a c e m e n t


                   Assurance level                                                    Elements needed

              Low                           Taking into account the risks of a change in the person identification data, renewal or repla­
                                            cement needs to meet the same assurance requirements as initial identity proofing and verifi­
                                            cation or is based on a valid electronic identification means of the same, or higher, assur­
                                            ance level.

              Substantial                   Same as level low.

              High                          Level low, plus:
                                            Where renewal or replacement is based on a valid electronic identification means, the iden­
                                            tity data is verified with an authoritative source.



     2.3.     Authentication

              This section focuses on the threats associated with the use of the authentication mechanism and lists the
              requirements for each assurance level. In this section controls shall be understood to be commensurate to the
              risks at the given level.

     2.3.1. A ut h e n t i c a t i o n m e c h an i s m

              The following table sets out the requirements per assurance level with respect to the authentication mechanism,
              through which the natural or legal person uses the electronic identification means to confirm its identity to a
              relying party.


                   Assurance level                                                    Elements needed

              Low                           1. The release of person identification data is preceded by reliable verification of the electro­
                                               nic identification means and its validity.
                                            2. Where person identification data is stored as part of the authentication mechanism, that
                                               information is secured in order to protect against loss and against compromise, including
                                               analysis offline.
                                            3. The authentication mechanism implements security controls for the verification of the
                                               electronic identification means, so that it is highly unlikely that activities such as gues­
                                               sing, eavesdropping, replay or manipulation of communication by an attacker with
                                               enhanced-basic attack potential can subvert the authentication mechanisms.
9.9.2015               EN                              Official Journal of the European Union                                           L 235/17


                  Assurance level                                                 Elements needed

              Substantial                 Level low, plus:
                                          1. The release of person identification data is preceded by reliable verification of the electro­
                                             nic identification means and its validity through a dynamic authentication.
                                          2. The authentication mechanism implements security controls for the verification of the
                                             electronic identification means, so that it is highly unlikely that activities such as gues­
                                             sing, eavesdropping, replay or manipulation of communication by an attacker with mod­
                                             erate attack potential can subvert the authentication mechanisms.


              High                        Level substantial, plus:
                                          The authentication mechanism implements security controls for the verification of the elec­
                                          tronic identification means, so that it is highly unlikely that activities such as guessing,
                                          eavesdropping, replay or manipulation of communication by an attacker with high attack
                                          potential can subvert the authentication mechanisms.




     2.4.     Management and organisation


              All participants providing a service related to electronic identification in a cross-border context (‘providers’) shall
              have in place documented information security management practices, policies, approaches to risk management,
              and other recognised controls so as to provide assurance to the appropriate governance bodies for electronic
              identification schemes in the respective Member States that effective practices are in place. Throughout
              section 2.4, all requirements/elements shall be understood as commensurate to the risks at the given level.


     2.4.1. G e n e r a l p r ov i s i o n s


                  Assurance level                                                 Elements needed

              Low                         1. Providers delivering any operational service covered by this Regulation are a public
                                             authority or a legal entity recognised as such by national law of a Member State, with an
                                             established organisation and fully operational in all parts relevant for the provision of the
                                             services.
                                          2. Providers comply with any legal requirements incumbent on them in connection with
                                             operation and delivery of the service, including the types of information that may be
                                             sought, how identity proofing is conducted, what information may be retained and for
                                             how long.
                                          3. Providers are able to demonstrate their ability to assume the risk of liability for damages,
                                             as well as their having sufficient financial resources for continued operations and provid­
                                             ing of the services.
                                          4. Providers are responsible for the fulfilment of any of the commitments outsourced to
                                             another entity, and compliance with the scheme policy, as if the providers themselves
                                             had performed the duties.
                                          5. Electronic identification schemes not constituted by national law shall have in place an
                                             effective termination plan. Such a plan shall include orderly discontinuations of service
                                             or continuation by another provider, the way in which relevant authorities and end users
                                             are informed, as well as details on how records are to be protected, retained and
                                             destroyed in compliance with the scheme policy.


              Substantial                 Same as level low.


              High                        Same as level low.
L 235/18                EN                                 Official Journal of the European Union                                         9.9.2015

     2.4.2. P u b l i s h e d n o t i c e s a n d u s e r i n fo r m a t i o n


                   Assurance level                                                  Elements needed

              Low                           1. The existence of a published service definition that includes all applicable terms, condit­
                                               ions, and fees, including any limitations of its usage. The service definition shall include a
                                               privacy policy.
                                            2. Appropriate policy and procedures are to be put in place in order to ensure that users of
                                               the service are informed in a timely and reliable fashion of any changes to the service
                                               definition and to any applicable terms, conditions, and privacy policy for the specified
                                               service.
                                            3. Appropriate policies and procedures are to be put in place that provide for full and cor­
                                               rect responses to requests for information.

              Substantial                   Same as level low.

              High                          Same as level low.



     2.4.3. I n fo r m a t i o n s e c u r i t y m a n a ge m e n t


                   Assurance level                                                  Elements needed

              Low                           There is an effective information security management system for the management and con­
                                            trol of information security risks.

              Substantial                   Level low, plus:
                                            The information security management system adheres to proven standards or principles for
                                            the management and control of information security risks.

              High                          Same as level substantial.



     2.4.4. R e c o r d k e ep i n g


                   Assurance level                                                  Elements needed

              Low                           1. Record and maintain relevant information using an effective record-management system,
                                               taking into account applicable legislation and good practice in relation to data protection
                                               and data retention.
                                            2. Retain, as far as it is permitted by national law or other national administrative arrange­
                                               ment, and protect records for as long as they are required for the purpose of auditing
                                               and investigation of security breaches, and retention, after which the records shall be
                                               securely destroyed.

              Substantial                   Same as level low.

              High                          Same as level low.



     2.4.5. Fa c i l i t i e s a n d s t a f f

              The following table represents the requirements with respect to facilities and staff and subcontractors, if
              applicable, who undertake duties covered by this Regulation. Compliance with each of the requirements shall be
              proportionate to the level of risk associated with the assurance level provided.
9.9.2015              EN                              Official Journal of the European Union                                            L 235/19


                  Assurance level                                                Elements needed

              Low                        1. The existence of procedures that ensure that staff and subcontractors are sufficiently
                                            trained, qualified and experienced in the skills needed to execute the roles they fulfil.
                                         2. The existence of sufficient staff and subcontractors to adequately operate and resource
                                            the service according to its policies and procedures.
                                         3. Facilities used for providing the service are continuously monitored for, and protect
                                            against, damage caused by environmental events, unauthorised access and other factors
                                            that may impact the security of the service.
                                         4. Facilities used for providing the service ensure that access to areas holding or processing
                                            personal, cryptographic or other sensitive information is limited to authorised staff or
                                            subcontractors.


              Substantial                Same as level low.


              High                       Same as level low.




     2.4.6. Te c hn i c a l c o n t r o l s


                  Assurance level                                                Elements needed

              Low                        1. The existence of proportionate technical controls to manage the risks posed to the secur­
                                            ity of the services, protecting the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the informa­
                                            tion processed.
                                         2. Electronic communication channels used to exchange personal or sensitive information
                                            are protected against eavesdropping, manipulation and replay.
                                         3. Access to sensitive cryptographic material, if used for issuing electronic identification
                                            means and authentication, is restricted to the roles and applications strictly requiring
                                            access. It shall be ensured that such material is never persistently stored in plain text.
                                         4. Procedures exist to ensure that security is maintained over time and that there is an abil­
                                            ity to respond to changes in risk levels, incidents and security breaches.
                                         5. All media containing personal, cryptographic or other sensitive information are stored,
                                            transported and disposed of in a safe and secure manner.


              Substantial                Same as level low, plus:
                                         Sensitive cryptographic material, if used for issuing electronic identification means and
                                         authentication is protected from tampering


              High                       Same as level substantial.




     2.4.7. C o m pl i a n c e a n d a u d i t


                  Assurance level                                                Elements needed

              Low                        The existence of periodical internal audits scoped to include all parts relevant to the supply
                                         of the provided services to ensure compliance with relevant policy.
L 235/20          EN                        Official Journal of the European Union                                        9.9.2015


              Assurance level                                         Elements needed

           Substantial          The existence of periodical independent internal or external audits scoped to include all
                                parts relevant to the supply of the provided services to ensure compliance with relevant
                                policy.

           High                 1. The existence of periodical independent external audits scoped to include all parts
                                   relevant to the supply of the provided services to ensure compliance with relevant policy.
                                2. Where a scheme is directly managed by a government body, it is audited in accordance
                                   with the national law.
